Start with the pattern Anthropic observed.
The report analyzed nine thousand eight hundred thirty substantive, multi-turn Claude conversations and measured eleven collaboration behaviors that could be seen inside the chat.
Artifact-producing conversations made up twelve point three percent of the sample.
When people were building an artifact, they became more directive.
Goal clarification rose by fourteen point seven percentage points.
Specifying a format rose by fourteen point five points.
Providing examples rose by thirteen point four points, and iteration rose by nine point seven points.
But the evaluation side moved in the opposite direction.
Identifying missing context fell by five point two percentage points.
Fact checking fell by three point seven points.
Asking the model to explain the basis for its reasoning fell by three point one points.
Why might this happen?
A polished artifact looks closer to completion, so the user may treat appearance as evidence.
Some artifact tasks also reward function or aesthetics more than factual precision.
And some users may be testing the code, sharing the draft, or reviewing it elsewhere, where the study cannot see their evaluation.
Those explanations matter because the findings are correlational, not causal.
The study does not prove that polished output makes people less critical.
It shows a reliable enough association to create a useful warning: completion cues can arrive before evaluation is complete.
Use polish as a trigger, not a verdict.
When an output looks finished, pause before praising or publishing it.
Ask what claim, assumption, dependency, or consequence is hardest to see from the surface.
First, polished presentation can arrive before critical evaluation is complete.
Second, artifact conversations show more direction but less visible checking.
Third, use polish as a review trigger rather than proof of quality.